“Sociological Personality of Technological Conferences”
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


DAC
---

>>> 2010

The 2010 conference was comprised mostly of medium-sized (5-12 nodes) groups. Almost every single author was in a group, and an overwhelming majority of them were in the groups mentioned before. There was also no distinct group that was larger and more central than the others, but rather several smaller groups that were interconnected via only one or two members each. In 2010, almost all TPC members were not authors, and connected to authors solely institutionally. However there were a few who were authors. A few of these members were central to the graph, but due to their institutional connections rather than their coauthorship connections. At least in 2010, being a TPC member did not lead to a significant benefit in coauthorship rates. 

The DAC 2010 conference was very "friendly" in that there was not a single group that stole all the others' thunder, and almost everyone had similar numbers of coauthors for their papers. There is nothing too significant about the structure of authors and TPC members in the 2010 conference.


>>> 2011

The 2011 conference was less evenly distributed in nature. Most of the authors were actually either individual submitters or in groups with less than five people. There were two groups that were distinctly large and more central than others. One of them was a very large group of coauthors all from the same institution, and the other was a newly emerged social group, or authors from different institutions who worked on a paper together. These groups were very central in that almost all the other groups of medium-size or higher were in some way connected to one of these clusters. However, the connections between two distinct groups tended to be almost always institutional in nature. It was rare that authors wrote papers with multiple distinct groups of people.

In 2011, there were far more examples of people writing papers either individually or in groups of three or less. The large group of coauthors all from the same institution did not contain all of the authors from that institution, but almost every author from that institution was in an at least medium-sized group. The same can be said about the authors connected to the social group. While people connected to the social group or large institutional group were not always necessarily in the largest groups, almost all of them were in medium-sized groups instead of very small ones. It seems like the social group and the other institutional group are in an "elite" caliber of authors, and they are very good connections to have because their connections are more likely to be sought after as coauthors than those that are in no way affiliated with them.


>>> 2012

The 2012 conference was a mix between the 2010 and 2011 conferences. Most of the authors had returned to the structure of medium sized groups rather than individual or two or three person groups. However, there was a very distinct central social group, which in fact was far larger than the one from 2011. Also, there was no second group of even remotely similar size and density. This social group also had many members who coauthored papers with people from other groups. Previously, connections between other groups and the central social group tended to be almost entirely institutionally, but in this year there was a relatively even split between coauthorship connections and institutional connections. The medium sized groups that were most closely connected to the central social group tended to be comprised of people from the same institution who all wrote papers together. The members of the social group also tended to be from a few different institutions.

In 2011, being connected to any large group resulted in a significant boost in the desirability of one as a coauthor. In 2012, almost every author found a medium-sized group of coauthors whether they were connected to the social group or not. However, those connected to the social group did tend to be in the largest of the medium groups, so the trend of social connection providing credibility boosts holds true The social group itself is a very tight knit cluster, with most of its members collaborating only inside of it. However, the members of the group near the outside had the most coauthorship connections. In this way, the social group is part of an elite tier of authors. The best of the elite only work with each other, but they greatly boost the coauthorship potential of anyone connected to them. Those among the elite who in not quite in the "inner circle" (and there is literally an inner circle) are the most prolific authors, but they do not get to collaborate as heavily with the rest of the elite. 


>>> 2013

The 2013 conference was a return of the structure to the 2011 conference. There was a large, central social group. However, one difference between 2013 and 2011 was that in 2013 barely any authors had any sort of group at all. The few who did also had groups of two or less. The vast majority of connections between 2013 authors outside the social group tended to be institutional. Even the authors conected to the social group were connected almost only via institutional connections to each other. 

In 2013, basically no one wrote papers with anyone else except the social group. For some reason, there was very little collaboration. This is a striking departure from the structure of authors in the 2012 conference, where almost everyone collaborated with someone else no matter what.

>>> 2014

The 2014 conference is a blend of all the previous years. There is a large social group, but it is noticeably smaller than in previous years, and it no longer has the same kind of influence as it did in previous years. There are a lot of authors, and there is an even split between people working with others and working alone. There is however markedly more collaboration than in 2013. The center of the graph is not any single large group, but rather a disjointed, dense, and shapeless jumble of authors, most of whom are connected via institutional connections. However, coauthorship among different groups of authors is far more prevalent than before.

The social group hit its critical mass in 2013, before decaying to a far smaller group in 2014. However, 2014 as a whole was a friendlier conference with markedly more collaboration and a surprisingly large amount of inter-group collaboration in addition to the expected amount of intra-group communication.


>>> DAC Summary

I expected that the personality of a conference would not change significantly among the years, but at least in the period of 2010 to 2014 DAC has had "mood swings" between two personality states - either overwhelmingly friendly to collaborators or very reserved and shut off. From 2011 to 2013, there was also a growing complex of elitist authors that reached critical mass and then decayed again in 2014, but during its peak times it was the largest discrete group of authors present at the conference. 



NOCS
----

>>> 2010

In the NOCS 2010 conference, there was an even spread of coauthorship, and almost every author was in a group of between two and seven people (therefore ranging from small to barely medium), and there was no single central group that was overwhelmingly larger than any other.

At least in 2010, NOCS was very friendly in that almost everyone had a collaborative group. 


>>> 2011

The NOCS conference did not change very much between the years, except that some of the smaller groups were consolidated into slightly larger ones (e.g. some of the groups of 2 and 3 were combined into groups of 5 or 6). 

The friendliness and ubiquity of collaborative groups remained for 2011 as well.


>>> 2012

In 2012, there was even further consolidation of the networks. Again, almost everyone had a collaborative partner, but now there were fewer overall groups because the groups that did exist grew in size. Also, the first strands of a social group emerged between two members of one of the larger groups.

The friendliness remained again, but it is interesting that the smaller groups of authors began to band together into larger groups. Also, the first strands of a social group emerged from within one of the existing larger groups.


>>> 2013

In 2013, the social group that was beginning to take form fully emerged and became the largest and most dominant group in the conference. Almost every connection in this group was internal as well. Of all the TPC members, there were only 4 who functioned as authors as well, and half of them were part of this social group.

Outside of the large social group, the friendliness of the conference was maintained again, but the complex of elitism present in the DAC social groups emerged for the first time. In this way, in 2013, the NOCS conference experienced its first overall worsening in personality. In the DAC conferences, being connected to the social group was valuable in terms of increasing an author's collaborative desirability. However, the NOCS social group was more elitist in that there was very little external collaboration at all from this group. 

>>> 2014

In 2014, the conference grew in size. There were more authors, and almost all of them were present in a small to medium-sized group. The social group from the previous year remained at the same size, but due to the growth of the conference, it was smaller relative to the size of the conference as a whole. As opposed to 2012, the 2013 version of this social group had many external connections.

The elitism present in the observed social group was also lessened in 2014 because there were many members of the social group who collaborated outside of it was well. A opposed to the social group in DAC, this social group also did not provide any "leg-up" to external authors connected to it - those authors were in social groups of the same size as the authors that were in no way connected to the social group. 


>>> NOCS Summary

The NOCS conference was pretty stable personality wise from 2010 to 2014. In 2013 a social group emerged and the conference began to show signs of a complex of elitism among a few authors, but in 2014 the same social group became far more inclusive to external authors. Also, unlike the social group present in the DAC conferences, there was no visible increase in coauthorship potential for authors who were connected to the social group.


>>> Summary

The DAC conference had the most variety in its personality, as it swung from friendly to cold within the space of a single year. However, it was friendly for 3 of the 5 years analyzed, suggesting that it is perhaps friendly for a slight majority of the time. The social groups that emerged at the DAC conference tended to "steal the show" and they contained an elite group of people who preferred to work only among each other - and when they did branch out, however rarely, whoever they worked with tended to be in larger groups than before, suggesting that the influence of the central social group increased the collaborative desirability of people connected to it. On the other hand, the social group present at the NOCS conference seemed to not have much influence outside of itself at all. During the year of its inception, it was almost completely self contained, but the year after, there was a large amount of collaboration between people inside the group and people outside of it. However, the group seemingly no influence on the people it was connected with. The NOCS conference overall did not change as much as the DAC conference did, and maintained a seemingly "friendly" personality the whole way through. There were traces of elitism during the initial emergence of the social group, but the year after that was dispelled due to the large amount of outer-group collaboration present.

CODES
EMSOFT
ESWEEK